Add feature toggles to docs (#59483)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/feature-toggles/index.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/feature-toggles/
description: Learn about toggles for experimental and beta features, which you can enable or disable.
title: Configure feature toggles
weight: 150
---

# Configure feature toggles

Feature toggles, also known as feature flags, are used for experimental or beta features in Grafana. Although we do not recommend that you use these features in production, you can turn on feature toggles to try out new functionality in development or test environments.

> This page contains a list of available feature toggles. To learn how to turn on feature toggles, refer to our [Configure Grafana documentation]({{< relref "../_index.md/#feature_toggles" >}}). Feature toogles are also available to Grafana Cloud Advanced customers - if you use Grafana Cloud Advanced, you can open a support ticket specifying the feature toggles and stack you would like them enabled

Reviewer: I would add the instructions for turning on a feature toggle here. It duplicates content, but a very small amount. It'll provide a nicer user experience not to navigate to another set of docs.

> This page contains a list of available feature toggles. To learn how to turn on feature toggles, refer to our [Configure Grafana documentation]({{< relref "../_index.md/#feature_toggles" >}}). Feature toogles are also available to Grafana Cloud Advanced customers - if you use Grafana Cloud Advanced, you can open a support ticket specifying the feature toggles and stack you would like them enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page contains a list of available feature toggles. To learn how to turn on feature toggles, refer to our [Configure Grafana documentation]({{< relref "../_index.md/#feature_toggles" >}}). Feature toggles are also available to Grafana Cloud Advanced customers. If you use Grafana Cloud Advanced, you can open a support ticket and specify the feature toggles and stack for which you want them enabled.
```

## Stable feature toggles

> Some stable features are enabled by default -- they can be disabled by setting the flag to false in the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some stable features are enabled by default. You can disable a stable feature by setting the feature flag to `false` in the configuration.
```

> | Feature toggle name          | Description                                                                                                     | Enable by default |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Feature toggle name          | Description                                                                                                     | Enabled by default |
```

| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |

> | `promQueryBuilder`           | Show prometheus query builder                                                                                   | Yes               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `promQueryBuilder`           | Show Prometheus query builder                                                                                   | Yes               |
```

| `disableEnvelopeEncryption`  | Disable envelope encryption (emergency only)                                                                    |                   |

> | `database_metrics`           | Add prometheus metrics for database tables                                                                      |                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `database_metrics`           | Add Prometheus metrics for database tables                                                                      |                   |
```

| `datasourceLogger`                | Logs all datasource requests                                                    |

## Alpha feature toggles

These are features early in their development lifecycle, they are not yet supported in grafana cloud. Alpha features may
be changed or removed without notice.

| Feature toggle name                | Description                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `alertingBigTransactions`          | Use big transactions for alerting database writes                                                                                                           |
| `dashboardPreviews`                | Create and show thumbnails for dashboard search results                                                                                                     |

> | `live-config`                      | Save grafana live configuration in SQL tables                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `live-config`                      | Save Grafana Live configuration in SQL tables                                                                                                               |
```

> | `live-pipeline`                    | enable a generic live processing pipeline                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `live-pipeline`                    | Enable a generic live processing pipeline                                                                                                                   |
```

| `live-service-web-worker`          | This will use a webworker thread to processes events rather than the main thread                                                                            |
| `queryOverLive`                    | Use grafana live websocket to execute backend queries                                                                                                       |
| `tempoApmTable`                    | Show APM table                                                                                                                                              |
| `influxdbBackendMigration`         | Query InfluxDB InfluxQL without the proxy                                                                                                                   |

> | `publicDashboards`                 | enables public access to dashboards                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `publicDashboards`                 | Enables public access to dashboards                                                                                                                         |
```

> | `lokiLive`                         | support websocket streaming for loki (early prototype)                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `lokiLive`                         | Support WebSocket streaming for Loki (early prototype)                                                                                                      |
```

> | `lokiDataframeApi`                 | use experimental loki api for websocket streaming (early prototype)                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `lokiDataframeApi`                 | Use experimental Loki API for WebSocket streaming (early prototype)                                                                                         |
```

| `cloudWatchCrossAccountQuerying`   | Use cross-account querying in CloudWatch datasource                                                                                                         |
| `redshiftAsyncQueryDataSupport`    | Enable async query data support for Redshift                                                                                                                |
| `athenaAsyncQueryDataSupport`      | Enable async query data support for Athena                                                                                                                  |
| `increaseInMemDatabaseQueryCache`  | Enable more in memory caching for database queries                                                                                                          |
| `newPanelChromeUI`                 | Show updated look and feel of grafana-ui PanelChrome: panel header, icons, and menu                                                                         |
| `showDashboardValidationWarnings`  | Show warnings when Dashboards do not validate against the schema                                                                                            |

> | `mysqlAnsiQuotes`                  | Use double quote to escape keyword in Mysql query                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mysqlAnsiQuotes`                  | Use double quotes to escape keyword in a MySQL query                                                                                                           |
```

| `elasticsearchBackendMigration`    | Use Elasticsearch as backend data source                                                                                                                    |
| `secureSocksDatasourceProxy`       | Enable secure socks tunneling for supported core datasources                                                                                                |
| `authnService`                     | Use new auth service to perform authentication                                                                                                              |

## Development feature toggles

> The following toggles require explicitly setting Grafana's [app mode]({{< relref "../_index.md/#app_mode" >}}) to 'development' before you can enable this feature toggle. These features tend to be especially experimental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following toggles require explicitly setting Grafana's [app mode]({{< relref "../_index.md/#app_mode" >}}) to 'development' before you can enable this feature toggle. These features tend to be experimental.
```

| Feature toggle name                    | Description                                               |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dashboardPreviewsAdmin`               | Manage the dashboard previews crawler process from the UI |
| `showFeatureFlagsInUI`                 | Show feature flags in the settings UI                     |
| `dashboardsFromStorage`                | Load dashboards from the generic storage interface        |
| `export`                               | Export grafana instance (to git, etc)                     |
| `azureMonitorResourcePickerForMetrics` | New UI for Azure Monitor Metrics Query                    |
| `grpcServer`                           | Run GRPC server                                           |

> | `objectStore`                          | SQL based object store                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectStore`                          | SQL-based object store                                    |
```
